website/docs/r/coreos_ignition.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "libvirt"
page_title: "Libvirt: libvirt_ignition"
sidebar_current: "docs-libvirt-ignition"
description: |-
  Manages a CoreOS Ignition file to supply to a domain
---

# libvirt\_ignition

Manages a [CoreOS Ignition](https://coreos.com/ignition/docs/latest/supported-platforms.html)
file written as a volume to a libvirt storage pool that can be used to customize
a CoreOS Domain during first boot.

~> **Note:** to make use of Ignition files with CoreOS the host must be running QEMU v2.6 or greater.

~> **Note:** On the i686 (x86), x86\_64 (AMD64), and aarch64 (ARM64) platforms,
the QEMU firmware config device (`-fw_cfg`) is used to pass Ignition configs
into the guests. On the s390x (IBM Z) platform however, the QEMU firmware
config device is not supported. As alternative, the OpenStack config-drive
mechanism is instead used. The `mkisofs` utility must be installed into the
path and Ignition must be run with the `--provider=openstack` flag.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "libvirt_ignition" "ignition" {
  name = "example.ign"
  content = <file-name or ignition object>
}

```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) A unique name for the resource, required by libvirt.
* `pool` - (Optional) The pool where the resource will be created.
  If not given, the `default` pool will be used.
* `content` - (Required) This points to the source of the Ignition configuration
  information that will be used to create the Ignition file in the libvirt
  storage pool.  The `content` can be
  * The name of file that contains Ignition configuration data, or its contents
  * A rendered terraform Ignition object

Any change of the above fields will cause a new resource to be created.

## Integration with Ignition provider

The `libvirt_ignition` resource can be integrated with terraform
[Ignition Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/ignition/index.html).

An example where a terraform ignition provider object is used:

```hcl
# Systemd unit data source containing the unit definition
data "ignition_systemd_unit" "example" {
  name = "example.service"
  content = "[Service]\nType=oneshot\nExecStart=/usr/bin/echo Hello World\n\n[Install]\nWantedBy=multi-user.target"
}

# Ignition config include the previous defined systemd unit data source
data "ignition_config" "example" {
  systemd = [
      "data.ignition_systemd_unit.example.id",
  ]
}

resource "libvirt_ignition" "ignition" {
  name = "ignition"
  content = data.ignition_config.example.rendered
}

resource "libvirt_domain" "my_machine" {
  coreos_ignition = libvirt_ignition.ignition.id
  ...
}
```

Commit message:

Use virtio-blk instead of disk for injecting ignition config for s390x and ppc64
The method of mimicking what Openstack does for injecting ignition config works for
images which have the provider as Openstack because ignition recognizes the platform
and knows it has to get the ignition config from the config drive. For QEMU images, ignition
supports getting the config from the firmware config device which is not supported by ppc64
and s390x.

The workaround we have used thus far is to use the Openstack image on the QEMU platform but have this provider create the iso containing the ignition config. There was a discussion in ignition
(coreos/ignition#928) to have a more QEMU based method of injecting ignition config and it was decided to use a virtio-blk device with a serial of ignition which ignition can recognize. This was mainly because with external devices, it is hard to tell if there is an issue with the device or if the kernel has not detected it yet if it has a long discovery phase.

This PR reverts the ISO method used by Openstack and just creates a virtio-blk device through the QEMU command line options.

Reference PR which supports ignition fetching through virtio-blk for QEMU: coreos/ignition#936

website/docs/r/coreos_ignition.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "libvirt"
page_title: "Libvirt: libvirt_ignition"
sidebar_current: "docs-libvirt-ignition"
description: |-
  Manages a CoreOS Ignition file to supply to a domain
---

# libvirt\_ignition

Manages a [CoreOS Ignition](https://coreos.com/ignition/docs/latest/supported-platforms.html)
file written as a volume to a libvirt storage pool that can be used to customize
a CoreOS Domain during first boot.

~> **Note:** to make use of Ignition files with CoreOS the host must be running QEMU v2.6 or greater.

~> **Note:** On the i686 (x86), x86\_64 (AMD64), and aarch64 (ARM64) platforms,
the QEMU firmware config device (`-fw_cfg`) is used to pass Ignition configs
into the guests. On the s390x (IBM Z) and PowerPC platforms however, the QEMU firmware
config device is not supported. As an alternative, a virtio-blk device is created with a serial
of `ignition` which ignition recognizes and reads the config from the device.

## Example Usage

```hcl
resource "libvirt_ignition" "ignition" {
  name = "example.ign"
  content = <file-name or ignition object>
}

```

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `name` - (Required) A unique name for the resource, required by libvirt.
* `pool` - (Optional) The pool where the resource will be created.
  If not given, the `default` pool will be used.
* `content` - (Required) This points to the source of the Ignition configuration
  information that will be used to create the Ignition file in the libvirt
  storage pool.  The `content` can be
  * The name of file that contains Ignition configuration data, or its contents
  * A rendered terraform Ignition object

Any change of the above fields will cause a new resource to be created.

## Integration with Ignition provider

The `libvirt_ignition` resource can be integrated with terraform
[Ignition Provider](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/ignition/index.html).

An example where a terraform ignition provider object is used:

```hcl
# Systemd unit data source containing the unit definition
data "ignition_systemd_unit" "example" {
  name = "example.service"
  content = "[Service]\nType=oneshot\nExecStart=/usr/bin/echo Hello World\n\n[Install]\nWantedBy=multi-user.target"
}

# Ignition config include the previous defined systemd unit data source
data "ignition_config" "example" {
  systemd = [
      "data.ignition_systemd_unit.example.id",
  ]
}

resource "libvirt_ignition" "ignition" {
  name = "ignition"
  content = data.ignition_config.example.rendered
}

resource "libvirt_domain" "my_machine" {
  coreos_ignition = libvirt_ignition.ignition.id
  ...
}
```
