examples/v0.12/coreos/README.md, before:

# CoreOS multi-machine example setup

### Requirements
* Linux Kernel ~> 4.14
* Libvirt ~> 3.0
* QEMU ~> 2.6

This is a relatively simple scalable example using CoreOS as operating system.
By modifying the `hosts` variable you can kickstart any number of virtual machines
with their own Ignition configuration


### Supported architectures
This example will work on i686 (x86), x86\_64 (AMD64), aarch64 (ARM64), and s390x (IBM Z). On i686, x86\_64, and aarch64, the Terraform provider uses QEMU's firmware configuration (fw\_cfg) device to pass the Ignition config through to the Ignition instance running in the virtual machine. In order for this to work, Ignition needs to be run with `--provider=qemu`. Unfortunately, QEMU doesn't support the firmware configuration device for s390x guests, so the Terraform provider falls back to using an OpenStack config-drive instead. The config-drive will automatically be created by the provider, provided that `mkisofs` is installed in the path, so no changes are necessary to the Terraform templates. Ignition needs to be run with `--provider=openstack` when inside of an s390x guest in order to find the config-drive.


### Using the QEMU Guest Agent

In case you don't use the networks provided by libvirt you may run into the issue that you won't be able to receive the IP addresses from the VM you create.

Using the QEMU guest agent allows libvirt to pick up the address by hooking itself into the guest operating system.
As CoreOS comes without any guest agents we need to supply it from somewhere.
If the machine has internet access you can edit the `qemu-agent.service` file and remove the `ExecStartPre` line and the docker daemon should download the appropriate container when you activate the service file in the Ignition config. If the machine has no access to the internet we need to upload the container from the KVM host.[1]
```bash
$ docker pull docker.io/rancher/os-qemuguestagent:v2.8.1-2
$ docker save docker.io/rancher/os-qemuguestagent:v2.8.1-2 -o /srv/images/qemu-guest-agent.tar
```

Make sure the relevant blocks are uncommented in the domain definition and the Ignition config. The Ignition configuration should include the two additional files `docker-images.mount` and `qemu-agent.service`. Note that the`qemu-guest-agent.tar` needs to be local to the KVM host and not the machine running terraform.


### Known Bugs
1. Before Linux 4.14-rc2 the graphics option "autoport" will not work and libvirt will try to create all machines with the same Spice/VNC port
2. Below libvirt v3 the generated Ignition id will change when the number of machines is changed causing a destroy/create for all machines.


[1]: Based on the work of [@tommyknows](https://github.com/dmacvicar/terraform-provider-libvirt/issues/364#issuecomment-442164364) and [@remoe](https://github.com/dmacvicar/terraform-provider-libvirt/issues/364#issuecomment-443456552).

Commit message:

Use virtio-blk instead of disk for injecting ignition config for s390x and ppc64
The method of mimicking what Openstack does for injecting ignition config works for
images which have the provider as Openstack because ignition recognizes the platform
and knows it has to get the ignition config from the config drive. For QEMU images, ignition
supports getting the config from the firmware config device which is not supported by ppc64
and s390x.

The workaround we have used thus far is to use the Openstack image on the QEMU platform but have this provider create the iso containing the ignition config. There was a discussion in ignition
(coreos/ignition#928) to have a more QEMU based method of injecting ignition config and it was decided to use a virtio-blk device with a serial of ignition which ignition can recognize. This was mainly because with external devices, it is hard to tell if there is an issue with the device or if the kernel has not detected it yet if it has a long discovery phase.

This PR reverts the ISO method used by Openstack and just creates a virtio-blk device through the QEMU command line options.

Reference PR which supports ignition fetching through virtio-blk for QEMU: coreos/ignition#936

examples/v0.12/coreos/README.md, after:

# CoreOS multi-machine example setup

### Requirements
* Linux Kernel ~> 4.14
* Libvirt ~> 3.0
* QEMU ~> 2.6

This is a relatively simple scalable example using CoreOS as operating system.
By modifying the `hosts` variable you can kickstart any number of virtual machines
with their own Ignition configuration


### Supported architectures
This example will work on i686 (x86), x86\_64 (AMD64), aarch64 (ARM64), and s390x (IBM Z). On i686, x86\_64, and aarch64, the Terraform provider uses QEMU's firmware configuration (fw\_cfg) device to pass the Ignition config through to the Ignition instance running in the virtual machine. In order for this to work, Ignition needs to be run with `--provider=qemu`. Unfortunately, QEMU doesn't support the firmware configuration device for s390x and PowerPC guests, so alternatively, a virtio-blk device is created with a serial of `ignition` which ignition detects and reads.


### Using the QEMU Guest Agent

In case you don't use the networks provided by libvirt you may run into the issue that you won't be able to receive the IP addresses from the VM you create.

Using the QEMU guest agent allows libvirt to pick up the address by hooking itself into the guest operating system.
As CoreOS comes without any guest agents we need to supply it from somewhere.
If the machine has internet access you can edit the `qemu-agent.service` file and remove the `ExecStartPre` line and the docker daemon should download the appropriate container when you activate the service file in the Ignition config. If the machine has no access to the internet we need to upload the container from the KVM host.[1]
```bash
$ docker pull docker.io/rancher/os-qemuguestagent:v2.8.1-2
$ docker save docker.io/rancher/os-qemuguestagent:v2.8.1-2 -o /srv/images/qemu-guest-agent.tar
```

Make sure the relevant blocks are uncommented in the domain definition and the Ignition config. The Ignition configuration should include the two additional files `docker-images.mount` and `qemu-agent.service`. Note that the`qemu-guest-agent.tar` needs to be local to the KVM host and not the machine running terraform.


### Known Bugs
1. Before Linux 4.14-rc2 the graphics option "autoport" will not work and libvirt will try to create all machines with the same Spice/VNC port
2. Below libvirt v3 the generated Ignition id will change when the number of machines is changed causing a destroy/create for all machines.


[1]: Based on the work of [@tommyknows](https://github.com/dmacvicar/terraform-provider-libvirt/issues/364#issuecomment-442164364) and [@remoe](https://github.com/dmacvicar/terraform-provider-libvirt/issues/364#issuecomment-443456552).
